.. funtoo-metatools documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Sat Mar 21 11:42:15 2020.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

Welcome to Funtoo Metatools
===========================

Funtoo metatools is a framework of powerful technologies created by Daniel
Robbins, the creator of Gentoo Linux, which allows you to create and maintain an
advanced Gentoo-based Linux distribution. See :ref:`What is Metatools?` for more
details on what is and what it can do for you.

Funtoo Linux uses ``metatools`` extensively to perform all its automated
functionality, including auto-creation of ebuilds, auto-creation of "kits" and
"meta-repo", CDN mirroring of distfiles (source code artifacts) and advanced
analytics.

You can use ``metatools`` as part of your own distribution infrastructure, or
leverage it in your contributions to Funtoo Linux.

Why is this Free?
=================

This technology is being released under an Open Source license (this software is
released under the `Apache Software License, version 2
<https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.txt>`_) along with
easy-to-understand documentation based on the belief that software should be
free to use and modify, and easy to understand and use.

Beyond the License
==================

Open Source is more than a license. Free software is more than just source code.
It is a philosophy of developing software that benefits greatly from true
collaboration and openness. Qualities such as honesty, integrity, transparency
of intent, not pursuing your own ambition in a way that is harmful to others or
their endeavors, and a sincere desire to help and give back are the attributes
that form the foundation of Open Source and Free Software. These qualities
result in people from around the world working together, and ultimately sharing
source code.

The choice of a software license is a means to facilitate this process, but the
endeavor is much deeper than choosing to use an 'open' license. You can use a
license, and even use it correctly, and still be undermining the pillars of true
collaboration.

I created Gentoo Linux and now Funtoo Linux with the to collaborate with you,
and to have fun by working together towards common interests. I ask that you
consider your own ethical commitment not just to the license, but to the
projects that you use.

I will defend your right to fork, because the source code license allows you to
do so, and sometimes it is necessary, but it is also much better when we can all
work together towards common goals.

It should always be our desire to work and collaborate with others openly, when
possible.


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Contents:

   intro
   install
   autogen


Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`
